Initial README (#8)
Sindri-Labs/sindri-scroll-sdk: README.md

Because provers require manual configuration, we will start those separately in a later section.
Note that the standard devnet settings do not include any proving layer services, so you will need to add the following two lines to the end of the `install` command in `scroll-sdk/devnet/Makefile`.
```bash
    --set coordinator-api.enabled=true \
    --set coordinator-cron.enabled=true
```
After that adjustment, enter `make install` in your terminal to start the chain.
You can monitor the progress and health of all the services via the command `kubectl get pods`.

> 🕒 **Waiting on the coordinator?**<br>
> An essential functionality of the coordinator is the validation of proofs that are returned from a prover.
> For this reason, there are two initial pods (`assets-download` and `parameter-download`) which must pull zkEVM circuit artifact files before the final `coordinator-api` pod starts.
> You can watch the progress of the first pod with `kubectl logs coordinator-api-0 -c assets-download`.
> Similarly, you can watch the progress of the trusted setup download via `kubectl logs coordinator-api-0 -c parameter-download`.

> ### Accessing Services Locally

Reviewer: These instructions assume that you are running the stack on a remote server and that you want to access that remote server from your local machine.

Should we modify these instructions to reflect the steps needed to run this on your local machine and access from your local machine?

Author: Agree with this suggestion. In fact, I was just running through these and they did not seem familiar.  Is it fair to just replace with the following?
```
minikube addons enable ingress
minikube addons enable ingress-dns
```
The `etc/hosts/` step was still required for me.  So that would be left alone, but the other two would get removed.

Do you have an easier route though?

Reviewer: I think that is correct - replace with minikube.

The /etc/hosts file still needs to be updated. But the IP address would be 127.0.0.1

Author: Addressed in https://github.com/Sindri-Labs/sindri-scroll-sdk/pull/8/commits/343d2047ed4ceb33637ce54bce762dc35e9ab272

> You can watch the progress of the first pod with `kubectl logs coordinator-api-0 -c assets-download`.
> Similarly, you can watch the progress of the trusted setup download via `kubectl logs coordinator-api-0 -c parameter-download`.

### Accessing Services Locally

Now, you should add mappings for the Scroll SDK services to your local DNS resolver by appending the following lines to the end of your `/etc/hosts` file:
```bash
127.0.0.1 frontends.scrollsdk
127.0.0.1 blockscout.scrollsdk
127.0.0.1 bridge-history-api.scrollsdk
127.0.0.1 grafana.scrollsdk
127.0.0.1 l1-devnet.scrollsdk
127.0.0.1 l1-explorer.scrollsdk
127.0.0.1 l2-rpc.scrollsdk
127.0.0.1 rollup-explorer-backend.scrollsdk
127.0.0.1 coordinator-api.scrollsdk
```

You should be able to access the endpoints via your browser.
[This section](https://scroll-sdk-init.docs.scroll.xyz/en/sdk/guides/devnet-deployment/#web-uis) of the Scroll SDK documentation provides an explanation of all the available dashboards.

### 🚀 Launching Sindri Provers

The simplest way to deploy Sindri provers is by following the guide in our [demo directory](demo/README.md).

> Before proceeding to that step, you may find it useful to generate some initial traffic on your chain so that the provers can be sent tasks.

Reviewer 2: I would add clarification that this should be run from `scroll-sdk/devnet/scroll-sdk` -- otherwise the command won't execute.

# Sindri Provers for Scroll SDK

<img src="./media/sindri-gradient-logo.webp" height="160" align="right"/>

> #### [Sindri Sign Up](https://sindri.app/signup) | [Scroll SDK Docs](https://scroll-sdk-init.docs.scroll.xyz/en/sdk/) | [Getting Started](#getting-started) | [Development](#development)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### [Sindri Sign Up](https://sindri.app/signup) | [Scroll SDK Docs](https://scroll-sdk-init.docs.scroll.xyz/en/sdk/) | [Getting Started](#getting-started) | [Development](#internal-development)
```

> Sindri provides automated ZK proving infrastructure, empowering hundreds of teams — including leading Layer 2s and rollups — to launch in minutes instead of months.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Sindri provides automated ZK proving infrastructure, empowering hundreds of teams—including leading Layer 2s and rollups—to launch in minutes instead of months.
```
Nice use of em-dash, but in US English there's no space before or after the dash.

> Through our API, developers can seamlessly integrate verifiable computation, reducing time to market, cutting costs, and scaling faster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Through the Sindri API, developers can seamlessly integrate verifiable computation, reducing time to market, cutting costs, and scaling faster.
```

> Sindri makes zero-knowledge infrastructure simple and accessible, facilitating automation across every layer of the ZK app deployment stack.

Reviewer 3: This seems a bit hyperbolic. "Every layer"?

Author: Fair criticism, commit https://github.com/Sindri-Labs/sindri-scroll-sdk/pull/8/commits/5badeaa9641bf064baa564a285693e02e16c563f changed the sentence to a more realistic depiction:
> Sindri makes zero-knowledge infrastructure simple and accessible, facilitating automation within the most hardware-intensive layer of the ZK app deployment stack.

> This repository hosts the images and Helm charts designed to perform proof generation for a Scroll SDK chain.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This repository hosts images and Helm charts designed to perform proof generation for a Scroll SDK chain.
```

Reviewer 3: Also, perhaps define the type of images hosted?

Author: Commit https://github.com/Sindri-Labs/sindri-scroll-sdk/pull/8/commits/9be1a2b57440f1ba59d28d94d3d7b75f408e822c changed the sentence to:
> This repository hosts a proving application image and Helm chart which will route all zkEVM proof generation to the Sindri platform for a Scroll SDK chain.

(Also lumping in a fix for the fact that we are only hosting one image and Helm chart, so those should both be singular)

The following diagram depicts how the Scroll SDK components work together when you use Sindri as a prover.
```mermaid
---
title: Scroll SDK with Sindri Provers
---
flowchart LR
    subgraph settle[Settlement Layer]
        direction LR
    end
    subgraph sequence[Sequencing Layer]
        direction LR
    end
    subgraph prove[Proving Layer]
        direction LR
        C["**Coordinator**"] -.->|Tasks| P@{ shape: processes, label: "**Provers**\nThese components outsource proof generation to Sindri's GPU workers" }
        P -.->|Proofs| C
    end
    subgraph sindri["Scroll Circuits on Sindri"]
        direction TB
        Chunk["**Chunk**
        Verified execution of contiguous blocks (i.e. a zkEVM proof)"]
        Batch["**Batch**
        Intermediate aggregation of multiple chunks"]
        Bundle["**Bundle**
        Final aggregate proof sent to the settlement layer"]
    end
    settle o--o sequence
    sequence o--o prove
    P --> Chunk
    P --> Batch
    P --> Bundle

> ```

Reviewer 3: Interesting idea for a dynamically created image, but the end result (as shown) can be confusing/frustrating in terms of not seeing all the text.
<img width="1641" alt="Screenshot 2024-10-28 at 1 51 41 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/44f1d6cb-0fed-4018-9813-04b77c092578">

Author: This is interesting. I cannot replicate this in firefox.  No matter what my window size is; or how fast I resize; the text in each box is shown.  The font-size is dynamic for me.  Are you reviewing the README in chrome or some other source?

Regardless, I'd like to keep the graphic. Even if I've got to compromise a bit on the explanatory paragraphs.  The point here is that while your client-side deployment has these pods called "Provers", they are really just relayers between the Coordinator and Sindri workers.

How about this:
1. I revise the text of the "Provers" node to say: "Relays tasks to Sindri workers"
2. I revise the three circuits to say:
  a. Chunk: "zkEVM Circuits"
  b. Batch: "Intermediate Aggregation"
  c. Bundle: "Final On-chain Proof"

Author: I will mark this down as a win for firefox.  Since this is only occurring with Safari, I think I'd like to keep the verbose descriptions of circuits.  I think it adds the first inkling of what provers are doing if you have no exposure to zkEVMs otherwise.

Reviewer 3: WFM

For more information about the Sindri platform, please check out [sindri.app](https://sindri.app/).

> The next section will show you how to launch a local Scroll SDK devnet with provers running on Sindri.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The next section shows how to launch a local Scroll SDK devnet with provers running on Sindri.
```

Reviewer 3: I'd also like to see a title and link to the "next section" just in case text moves around and for absolute clarity. So 

```suggestion
The next section ([Getting Started](#getting-started)) shows how to launch a local Scroll SDK devote with provers running on Sindri.
```

For production deployments, please consult the official [Scroll SDK documentation](https://scroll-sdk-init.docs.scroll.xyz/en/sdk/guides/production-deployment/).

# Getting Started

While this section primarily reiterates [Scroll's Devnet Guide](https://scroll-sdk-init.docs.scroll.xyz/en/sdk/guides/devnet-deployment/), it includes adjustments specifically for Ubuntu environments.
This guide also makes revisions to launch the coordinator service which acts as a gateway between the sequencing layer and Sindri provers.

> Since the coordinator requires at least 20Gb of RAM, we recommend you use a machine with at least 32Gb available.

Reviewer 3: Pretty sure convention is to separate the number from the units. Also, gigabyte is "GB".

```suggestion
Since the coordinator requires at least 20 GB of RAM, we recommend you use a machine with at least 32 GB available.
```

### Prerequisites

You will need to obtain an API key to use Sindri.

> If you have not already created an account, follow the sign up link posted at the top left of this README.

Reviewer 3: Umm, would it be nicer for the reader if the link was right here where they are reading? Is there some over-riding reason to force the user to navigate elsewhere?

Author: Addressed by https://github.com/Sindri-Labs/sindri-scroll-sdk/pull/8/commits/b82348eed2a485647a347e7ea37b3d2125323128

After logging into the [Sindri front-end](https://sindri.app/login), you can create and manage your API Keys within the [API Keys Settings page](https://sindri.app/z/me/page/settings/api-keys).

You should also install `docker`, `kubectl`, `minikube`, `helm`, `node`, and `scrollsdk` as instructed by the official [Scroll SDK documentation](https://scroll-sdk-init.docs.scroll.xyz/en/sdk/guides/devnet-deployment/#prerequisites).

You should initialize your `minikube` environment via

> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```bash
```
Looks like an oversight since all the other code blocks have syntax hint.

minikube start --cpus=12 --memory=32768
minikube addons enable ingress
minikube addons enable ingress-dns
```

> In the first command, you are allowing the minikube container to use up to 32Gb of RAM.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the first command, you are allowing the minikube container to use up to 32 GB of RAM.
```

The following two commands enable external traffic to reach the minikube cluster so that you can interact with the chain outside the minikube container.

### Obtaining and Configuring Charts

You first need to clone the Scroll SDK repo and navigate to the `devnet/` directory to access some helper scripts.
```bash
git clone git@github.com:scroll-tech/scroll-sdk.git
cd scroll-sdk/devnet
```

This next command manually pulls and extracts the charts for the latest version of Scroll SDK.
```bash
make bootstrap
```
> ⚠️ **Encountering Permission Issues?**<br>
> If you are given any prompts during the execution of the bootstrap command or if `make install` does not successfully execute, then there is likely a root vs. user mismatch between configuration shell scripts and the downloaded files.
> You can solve this by exiting the bootstrap process with `ctrl+c` and running the `config` command separately with `sudo make config`.

### Installing the Helm Chart

In this step, we will launch the sequencing layer, the coordinator, and various visibility services.

> Because provers require manual configuration, we will start those separately.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Because provers require manual configuration, we will start these services separately.
```

Note that the standard devnet settings do not include any proving layer services, so you will need to add the following two lines to the end of the `install` command in `scroll-sdk/devnet/Makefile`.
```bash
    --set coordinator-api.enabled=true \
    --set coordinator-cron.enabled=true

> ```

Reviewer 3: IMO it's helpful to show context for additions like these. Maybe show the new lines and then also show where they go in the Makefile? YMMV and I don't have access to that repo (yet) to provide an example.

Author: Good. Commit https://github.com/Sindri-Labs/sindri-scroll-sdk/pull/8/commits/c528cacb0b6c66079bd3f0c66b17934c207565f3 added the surround Makefile section

> After that adjustment, enter `make install` in your terminal to start the chain.

Reviewer 3: Starting the chain seems like a major step, and yet `make install` is buried in the sentence. I'd prefer showing a full code block like the earlier examples.

Author: Commit https://github.com/Sindri-Labs/sindri-scroll-sdk/pull/8/commits/9afb66b07b940a4a41c20bc93f6c915c9e34cfef added a dedicated codeblock and while I was there, it seemed like some extra "what to look for after running this command" was called for.

> For this reason, there are two initial pods (`assets-download` and `parameter-download`) which must pull zkEVM circuit artifact files before the final `coordinator-api` pod starts.
> You can watch the progress of the first pod with `kubectl logs coordinator-api-0 -c assets-download`.
> Similarly, you can watch the progress of the trusted setup download via `kubectl logs coordinator-api-0 -c parameter-download`.

### Accessing Services Locally

Now, you should add mappings for the Scroll SDK services to your local DNS resolver by appending the following lines to the end of your `/etc/hosts` file:
```bash
127.0.0.1 frontends.scrollsdk
127.0.0.1 blockscout.scrollsdk
127.0.0.1 bridge-history-api.scrollsdk
127.0.0.1 grafana.scrollsdk
127.0.0.1 l1-devnet.scrollsdk
127.0.0.1 l1-explorer.scrollsdk
127.0.0.1 l2-rpc.scrollsdk
127.0.0.1 rollup-explorer-backend.scrollsdk
127.0.0.1 coordinator-api.scrollsdk
```

You should be able to access the endpoints via your browser.
[This section](https://scroll-sdk-init.docs.scroll.xyz/en/sdk/guides/devnet-deployment/#web-uis) of the Scroll SDK documentation provides an explanation of all the available dashboards.

### 🚀 Launching Sindri Provers

> The simplest way to deploy Sindri provers is by following the guide in our [demo directory](demo/README.md).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The simplest way to deploy Sindri provers is by following the [Deploy Sindri Provers](demo/README.md) guide helpfully included in the "demo" directory.
```

# Sindri Provers for Scroll SDK

<img src="./media/sindri-gradient-logo.webp" height="160" align="right"/>

#### [Sindri Sign Up](https://sindri.app/signup) | [Scroll SDK Docs](https://scroll-sdk-init.docs.scroll.xyz/en/sdk/) | [Getting Started](#getting-started) | [Development](#internal-development)

Sindri provides automated ZK proving infrastructure, empowering hundreds of teams—including leading Layer 2s and rollups—to launch in minutes instead of months.
Through the Sindri API, developers can seamlessly integrate verifiable computation, reducing time to market, cutting costs, and scaling faster.
Sindri makes zero-knowledge infrastructure simple and accessible, facilitating automation within the most hardware-intensive layer of the ZK app deployment stack.

> This repository hosts a proving application image and Helm chart which will route all zkEVM proof generation to the Sindri platform for a Scroll SDK chain.

Reviewer 3: "... for a Scroll SDK chain."

Is "Scroll SDK chain" a thing? Is this an accurate descriptor which will be clear to the ZK reader?

Author: This phrasing is modeled after the upstream Scroll docs, cf [Running a Scroll SDK devnet](https://scroll-sdk-init.docs.scroll.xyz/en/sdk/guides/devnet-deployment/).  (Devnet is a specific type of ephemeral chain used for developers to test out their setup or build applications on).  So I'm fairly confident that this language won't cause confusion

Reviewer 3: Thanks for the 'splainin

    end
    settle o--o sequence
    sequence o--o prove
    P --> Chunk
    P --> Batch
    P --> Bundle
```

For more information about the Sindri platform, please check out [sindri.app](https://sindri.app/).
The next section ([Getting Started](#getting-started)) shows how to launch a local Scroll SDK devote with provers running on Sindri.
For production deployments, please consult the official [Scroll SDK documentation](https://scroll-sdk-init.docs.scroll.xyz/en/sdk/guides/production-deployment/).

# Getting Started

While this section primarily reiterates [Scroll's Devnet Guide](https://scroll-sdk-init.docs.scroll.xyz/en/sdk/guides/devnet-deployment/), it includes adjustments specifically for Ubuntu environments.
This guide also makes revisions to launch the coordinator service which acts as a gateway between the sequencing layer and Sindri provers.
Since the coordinator requires at least 20 GB of RAM, we recommend you use a machine with at least 32 GB available.

### Prerequisites

You will need to obtain an API key to use Sindri.
If you have not already created an account, you can do so by visiting the [Sindri sign up page](https://sindri.app/signup).

> After logging into the [Sindri front-end](https://sindri.app/login), you can create and manage your API Keys within the [API Keys Settings page](https://sindri.app/z/me/page/settings/api-keys).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
After logging into the [Sindri front-end](https://sindri.app/login), you can create and manage your API Keys within the [API Keys Settings page](https://sindri.app/login?next=/z/me/page/settings/api-keys).
```
By using the "next url" feature, this link will take you to your personal-team’s api key page upon login or it’ll take you to your currently selected team’s api-keys page if you are already logged in

Reviewer 3: @KPreisner This link is labeled "API Keys Settings page". Do you want someone saving this link as the canonical api key page? Does our code not detect the "not logged in" event and redirect to login with "?next=..." automatically?

Reviewer 3: [Our docs](https://sindri.app/docs/topic-guides/access-management/#api-key-creation-and-management) use a direct link to the api key settings page: `https://sindri.app/z/me/page/settings/api-keys`.

Our code does not detect the "not logged in" event and redirect to login with "?next=..." automatically. Maybe there's a good reason for that? In either case I'd go with our docs for consistency.

You should also install `docker`, `kubectl`, `minikube`, `helm`, `node`, and `scrollsdk` as instructed by the official [Scroll SDK documentation](https://scroll-sdk-init.docs.scroll.xyz/en/sdk/guides/devnet-deployment/#prerequisites).

> You should initialize your `minikube` environment via

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You should initialize your `minikube` environment with three commands:
```

### Obtaining and Configuring Charts

You first need to clone the Scroll SDK repo and navigate to the `devnet/` directory to access some helper scripts.
```bash
git clone git@github.com:scroll-tech/scroll-sdk.git
cd scroll-sdk/devnet
```

This next command manually pulls and extracts the charts for the latest version of Scroll SDK.
```bash
make bootstrap
```
> ⚠️ **Encountering Permission Issues?**<br>
> If you are given any prompts during the execution of the bootstrap command or if `make install` does not successfully execute, then there is likely a root vs. user mismatch between configuration shell scripts and the downloaded files.
> You can solve this by exiting the bootstrap process with `ctrl+c` and running the `config` command separately with `sudo make config`.

### Installing the Helm Chart

In this step, we will launch the sequencing layer, the coordinator, and various visibility services.
Because provers require manual configuration, we will start these services separately.
Note that the standard devnet settings do not include any proving layer services, so you will need to add the following two lines to the end of the `install` command in `scroll-sdk/devnet/Makefile`.

> ```bash
> install: # The relevant section in the Makefile
> 		helm upgrade -i scroll-sdk scroll-sdk -n $(NAMESPACE) \
> 			--set l2-rpc.image.tag=$(L2_IMAGE_TAG) \
> 			--set l2-sequencer.image.tag=$(L2_IMAGE_TAG) \
>             # Omitted rows ...
>             --values scroll-sdk/scroll-common-config.yaml \
>             --values scroll-sdk/scroll-common-config-contracts.yaml \ 
>             # Add the following two rows
>             --set coordinator-api.enabled=true \
>             --set coordinator-cron.enabled=true
> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```makefile
 install:
             ...
             # Add the following two rows
             --set coordinator-api.enabled=true \
             --set coordinator-cron.enabled=true \
             ...
```
```
